doc/customizing-data-generation.md, before:

# Customizing Data Generation

1. [Faker Data](#faker-data)
1. [Localized Fake Data](#localized-fake-data)
1. [Default Providers](#default-providers)
    1. [Identity](#identity)
    1. [Current](#current)
    1. [Cast](#cast)
1. [Custom Faker Data Providers](#custom-faker-data-providers)


## Faker Data

Alice integrates with the [Faker](https://github.com/fzaninotto/Faker) library.
Using `<foo()>` you can call Faker data providers to generate random data. Check
the [list of Faker providers](https://github.com/fzaninotto/Faker#formatters).

Let's turn our static bob user into a randomized entry:

```yaml
Nelmio\Entity\User:
    user{1..10}:
        username: '<username()>'
        fullname: '<firstName()> <lastName()>'
        birthDate: '<date()>'
        email: '<email()>'
        favoriteNumber: '<numberBetween(1, 200)>'
```

As you see in the last line, you can also pass arguments to those just as if
you were calling a function.


### Localized Fake Data

Faker can create localized data for addresses, phone numbers and so on. You can
set the default locale to use by configuring the `locale` value used by Faker
generator. With `NativeLoader`, this can be done by overridding the
`createFakerGenerator()` method. In Symfony, override the
`nelmio_alice.faker.generator` service.

Additionally, you can mix locales by adding a locale prefix to the faker key,
i.e. `<fr_FR:phoneNumber()>` or `<de_DE:firstName()>`.


### Default Providers

Alice default Faker provider can be found in [AliceProvider](../src/Faker/Provider/AliceProvider.php).

### Identity

Alice includes a default identity provider, `<identity()>`, that evaluates whatever
is passed to it and returns the evaluated value. As a result, you can use it to do
arithmetic operations such as `<identity(1 * 2)>` or use PHP expressions like
`<identity(new \DateTimeImmutable('2016-09-16'))>`.

The identity function supports still references and variables so you can still do
`<identity($favoriteNumber * @user1->favoriteNumber)>`. The value of current,
usually used with `<current()>`, is accessible via the `$current` variable.

Some syntactic sugar is provided for this as well, and `<($whatever)>` is an alias
for `<identity($whatever)>`.


### Current

Returns the current value in the context of a collection:

```yaml
stdClass:
    dummy{1..2}:
        currentValue: <current()> # is equivalent to '$current'
```


### Cast

The cast method was added at some point, but you should use PHP `settype` instead:

```yaml
stdClass:
    dummy{1..2}:
        val: <settype('int', $current)>
```


## Custom Faker Data Providers

Sometimes you need more than what Faker and Alice provide you natively. For
that, you can register a custom [Faker Provider](https://github.com/fzaninotto/Faker/tree/master/src/Faker/Provider) class:

```php
<?php

namespace App\Faker\Provider;

use Faker\Provider\Base as BaseProvider;

final class JobProvider extends BaseProvider
{
   /**
    * Sources: {@link http://siliconvalleyjobtitlegenerator.tumblr.com/}
    *
    * @var array List of job titles.
    */
   const TITLE_PROVIDER = [
       'firstname' => [
           'Audience Recognition',
           'Big Data',
           'Bitcoin',
           '...',
           'Video Experience',
           'Wearables',
           'Webinar',
       ],
       'lastname' => [
           'Advocate',
           'Amplifier',
           'Architect',
           '...',
           'Warlock',
           'Watchman',
           'Wizard',
       ],
       'fullname' => [
           'Conductor of Datafication',
           'Crowd-Funder-in-Residence',
           'Quantified-Self-in-Residence',
           '...',
           'Tech-Svengali-in-Residence',
           'Tech-Wizard-in-Residence',
           'Thought-Leader-in-Residence',
       ],
   ];

   /**
    * Sources: {@link http://sos.uhrs.indiana.edu/Job_Code_Title_Abbreviation_List.htm}
    *
    * @var array List of job abbreviations.
    */
   const ABBREVIATION_PROVIDER = [
       'ABATE',
       'ACAD',
       'ACCT',
       '...',
       'WCTR',
       'WSTRN',
       'WKR',
   ];

   /**
    * @return string Random job title.
    */
   public function jobTitle()
   {
       $names = [
           sprintf(
               '%s %s',
               self::randomElement(self::TITLE_PROVIDER['firstname']),
               self::randomElement(self::TITLE_PROVIDER['lastname'])
           ),
           self::randomElement(self::TITLE_PROVIDER['fullname']),
       ];

       return self::randomElement($names);
   }

   /**
    * @return string Random job abbreviation title
    */
   public function jobAbbreviation()
   {
       return self::randomElement(self::ABBREVIATION_PROVIDER);
   }
}
```

Then you can add it to the Faker Generator used by Alice by either overridding
the `NativeLoader::createFakerGenerator()` method or register it as a service
with the tag `nelmio_alice.faker.provider`.


<br />
<hr />

« [Keep Your Fixtures Dry](fixtures-refactoring.md) • [Table of Contents](../README.md#table-of-contents) »

Commit message:

Add doc for the seed parameter (#822)

doc/customizing-data-generation.md, after:

# Customizing Data Generation

1. [Faker Data](#faker-data)
    1. [Localized Fake Data](#localized-fake-data)
    1. [Random data](#random-data)
    1. [Default Providers](#default-providers)
        1. [Identity](#identity)
        1. [Current](#current)
        1. [Cast](#cast)
1. [Custom Faker Data Providers](#custom-faker-data-providers)


## Faker Data

Alice integrates with the [Faker][1] library. Using `<foo()>` you can call Faker
data providers to generate random data. Check the
[list of Faker providers](https://github.com/fzaninotto/Faker#formatters).

Let's turn our static bob user into a randomized entry:

```yaml
Nelmio\Entity\User:
    user{1..10}:
        username: '<username()>'
        fullname: '<firstName()> <lastName()>'
        birthDate: '<date()>'
        email: '<email()>'
        favoriteNumber: '<numberBetween(1, 200)>'
```

As you see in the last line, you can also pass arguments to those just as if
you were calling a function.


### Random data

The underlying [Faker][1] library is using a [seed for its data generators][2]
which if set (this is the default) will ensure you will get the same data
between two loadings.

If you wish to generate different data on each loading, you can reset the seed
by overriding the `getSeed()` method when using the `NativeLoader` or the
the parameter `nelmio_alice.seed` if you are using Symfony.


### Localized Fake Data

Faker can create localized data for addresses, phone numbers and so on. You can
set the default locale to use by configuring the `locale` value used by Faker
generator. With `NativeLoader`, this can be done by overridding the
`createFakerGenerator()` method. In Symfony, override the
`nelmio_alice.faker.generator` service.

Additionally, you can mix locales by adding a locale prefix to the faker key,
i.e. `<fr_FR:phoneNumber()>` or `<de_DE:firstName()>`.


### Default Providers

Alice default Faker provider can be found in [AliceProvider](../src/Faker/Provider/AliceProvider.php).

### Identity

Alice includes a default identity provider, `<identity()>`, that evaluates whatever
is passed to it and returns the evaluated value. As a result, you can use it to do
arithmetic operations such as `<identity(1 * 2)>` or use PHP expressions like
`<identity(new \DateTimeImmutable('2016-09-16'))>`.

The identity function supports still references and variables so you can still do
`<identity($favoriteNumber * @user1->favoriteNumber)>`. The value of current,
usually used with `<current()>`, is accessible via the `$current` variable.

Some syntactic sugar is provided for this as well, and `<($whatever)>` is an alias
for `<identity($whatever)>`.


### Current

Returns the current value in the context of a collection:

```yaml
stdClass:
    dummy{1..2}:
        currentValue: <current()> # is equivalent to '$current'
```


### Cast

The cast method was added at some point, but you should use PHP `settype` instead:

```yaml
stdClass:
    dummy{1..2}:
        val: <settype('int', $current)>
```


## Custom Faker Data Providers

Sometimes you need more than what Faker and Alice provide you natively. For
that, you can register a custom [Faker Provider](https://github.com/fzaninotto/Faker/tree/master/src/Faker/Provider) class:

```php
<?php

namespace App\Faker\Provider;

use Faker\Provider\Base as BaseProvider;

final class JobProvider extends BaseProvider
{
   /**
    * Sources: {@link http://siliconvalleyjobtitlegenerator.tumblr.com/}
    *
    * @var array List of job titles.
    */
   const TITLE_PROVIDER = [
       'firstname' => [
           'Audience Recognition',
           'Big Data',
           'Bitcoin',
           '...',
           'Video Experience',
           'Wearables',
           'Webinar',
       ],
       'lastname' => [
           'Advocate',
           'Amplifier',
           'Architect',
           '...',
           'Warlock',
           'Watchman',
           'Wizard',
       ],
       'fullname' => [
           'Conductor of Datafication',
           'Crowd-Funder-in-Residence',
           'Quantified-Self-in-Residence',
           '...',
           'Tech-Svengali-in-Residence',
           'Tech-Wizard-in-Residence',
           'Thought-Leader-in-Residence',
       ],
   ];

   /**
    * Sources: {@link http://sos.uhrs.indiana.edu/Job_Code_Title_Abbreviation_List.htm}
    *
    * @var array List of job abbreviations.
    */
   const ABBREVIATION_PROVIDER = [
       'ABATE',
       'ACAD',
       'ACCT',
       '...',
       'WCTR',
       'WSTRN',
       'WKR',
   ];

   /**
    * @return string Random job title.
    */
   public function jobTitle()
   {
       $names = [
           sprintf(
               '%s %s',
               self::randomElement(self::TITLE_PROVIDER['firstname']),
               self::randomElement(self::TITLE_PROVIDER['lastname'])
           ),
           self::randomElement(self::TITLE_PROVIDER['fullname']),
       ];

       return self::randomElement($names);
   }

   /**
    * @return string Random job abbreviation title
    */
   public function jobAbbreviation()
   {
       return self::randomElement(self::ABBREVIATION_PROVIDER);
   }
}
```

Then you can add it to the Faker Generator used by Alice by either overridding
the `NativeLoader::createFakerGenerator()` method or register it as a service
with the tag `nelmio_alice.faker.provider`.


<br />
<hr />

« [Keep Your Fixtures Dry](fixtures-refactoring.md) • [Table of Contents](../README.md#table-of-contents) »


[1]: https://github.com/fzaninotto/Faker
[2]: https://github.com/fzaninotto/Faker#seeding-the-generator
